# Concepts of Web Template Studio

This section outlines the main concepts and definitions used in *Web Template Studio*.

## Main concepts

*Web Template Studio* is divided in the following main elements:

- **Extension**: Refers to the Visual Studio Code Extension project, which, once installed, allows users to have an improved experience when creating a new Web or React Native Application. The extension is written in typescript. 
   
  The extension is started by using the the `Web Template Studio: [command name]` command. Currently available commands are:
  - Web Template Studio: Create Web App 
  - Web Template Studio: Create React Native App
  - Web Template Studio: Deploy Web App

- **Wizard**: Refers to the WebTS client project, where all user interaction occurs after launching *Web Template Studio*. The Wizard guides the user through some steps to create the desired project. It allows the user to select from the available frameworks, pages and Azure Cloud Services. The wizard is created with React Typescript and is displayed through the React Panel.
- **Core Template Studio and Core Template Studio CLI**: Refers to the .NET Core executable that handles all of the template synchronization and code generation (composition, generation + postaction execution). The CLI is the entry point for executing commands on Core Template Studio executable. CoreTS CLI is a self-contained .NET Core 3.1 application.
- **Template**: A template contains code with metadata. The metadata will contain the following template information: name, description, licensing, remarks, programming language, type, etc. The template definition is based on [dotnet Template Engine](https://github.com/dotnet/templating). For more details templates see [Understanding the Templates](./contributing/templates.md)

## Other Terminology

- **WebTS/Web Template Studio**: Refers to the Visual Studio Code extension used to generate boilerplate code for Web applications.
- **Contributing Developer**: A developer who is contributing to this open source project.
- **User**: A developer who is using the WebTS extension.
- **MockUps**: A sample project that contains the code as it will be generated by the engine. MockUps are used to discuss how the generated code should look like before doing the templates.

---

## Learn more

- [Installing the extension](./install.md)
- [Application Arquitecture](./contributing/application-architecture.md)
- [Getting started with the WebTS codebase](./contributing/getting-started-developers.md)
- [Templates](./contributing/templates.md)
- [All docs](./README.md)
